PetIQ Paid Time Off (PTO) and Sick Time Policy

Effective Date: January 1, 2025
Policy Number: HR-205

PAID TIME OFF (PTO)

PetIQ provides paid time off to all eligible employees for vacation, personal business, and other time away from work.

PTO ACCRUAL RATES (Full-Time Employees):

Years of Service | Annual PTO Days | Accrual per Pay Period*
0-2 years        | 15 days         | 4.62 hours
3-5 years        | 20 days         | 6.15 hours
6-10 years       | 22 days         | 6.77 hours
11+ years        | 25 days         | 7.69 hours

*Based on bi-weekly pay periods (26 per year)

Part-Time Employees (20-29 hours/week):
Accrue PTO on a prorated basis according to hours worked.

PTO USAGE GUIDELINES:

PTO begins accruing from your first day of employment
PTO can be used after completing 90 days of employment
Requests must be submitted through the employee portal at least 2 weeks in advance for planned absences
Manager approval required for all PTO requests
PTO can be used in minimum increments of 2 hours
Blackout periods may apply during peak business seasons (notification given 60 days in advance)
PTO CARRYOVER:

Up to 80 hours (10 days) of unused PTO may be carried over to the next calendar year
Any PTO hours exceeding 80 hours at year-end will be forfeited
Employees will receive a reminder in November about their PTO balance
PTO PAYOUT:

Upon termination, unused PTO up to 80 hours will be paid out in the final paycheck
Employees must provide at least 2 weeks' notice to be eligible for PTO payout
Employees terminated for cause forfeit unused PTO
SICK TIME

PetIQ provides separate sick time for health-related absences.

SICK TIME ACCRUAL:

All employees accrue 1 hour of sick time for every 30 hours worked
Maximum accrual: 56 hours (7 days) per year
Sick time begins accruing immediately upon hire
Can be used after 90 days of employment
ELIGIBLE USES OF SICK TIME:

Personal illness or injury
Medical, dental, or vision appointments
Caring for an ill family member (spouse, child, parent, domestic partner)
Illness of a child when school/daycare closed due to public health emergency
Preventative medical care
SICK TIME USAGE GUIDELINES:

Use in minimum increments of 2 hours
Notify your manager as soon as possible, preferably before your shift begins
Medical documentation required for absences of 3 or more consecutive days
Sick time cannot be scheduled in advance like PTO
Unused sick time does NOT carry over to the next year
Sick time is not paid out upon termination
HOLIDAYS

PetIQ observes the following 12 paid holidays:

New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Presidents' Day
Memorial Day
Juneteenth
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
New Year's Eve
Holiday pay is provided to full-time employees at regular pay rate. Part-time employees receive prorated holiday pay based on average hours worked.

If a holiday falls on a weekend, it will be observed on the closest weekday.

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees are entitled to up to 5 days of paid bereavement leave.

Immediate family includes: spouse, domestic partner, child, parent, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, parent-in-law, or any relative living in the employee's household.

Extended family (aunt, uncle, cousin, niece, nephew): Up to 1 day paid leave

Additional time may be taken using PTO if needed.

JURY DUTY

Employees called for jury duty will be paid for up to 10 days. Employees must provide a copy of the jury summons to HR. If excused early from jury duty, employees are expected to return to work if more than 2 hours remain in the workday.

VOTING LEAVE

Employees are encouraged to vote before or after work hours. If this is not possible, employees may take up to 2 hours of paid time off to vote. Advance notice to your manager is appreciated.

REQUESTING TIME OFF:

Log into the PetIQ employee portal
Navigate to "Time Off" > "Request Time Off"
Select the type (PTO or Sick Time)
Enter dates and reason
Submit for manager approval
You will receive email notification of approval/denial
ATTENDANCE EXPECTATIONS:

PetIQ expects employees to maintain good attendance. Excessive unscheduled absences may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

Unscheduled absences of 3 or more consecutive days require medical documentation upon return to work.

QUESTIONS?

For questions about this policy or your PTO/sick time balance, contact:

Your immediate manager
Human Resources at hr@petiq.com
HR Department at ext. 2400
Check your current PTO and sick time balance anytime through the employee portal.

This policy is subject to change at the company's discretion. Employees will be notified of any changes in writing.

